From mccann@watson.org Mon Mar 22 08:08:31 2004
Date: Thu, 6 Dec 2001 07:33:13 -0500
From: "Jim Pivarski (McCann)" <mccann@watson.org>
To: Mike Schuresko <mds@watson.org>
Subject: bell's theorem

On Tue, Dec 04, 2001 at 04:12:11PM -0500, Mike Schuresko wrote:
> On Tue, 4 Dec 2001, Jim Pivarski (McCann) wrote:
> 
> > In 196X, Bell found a quantity that could distinguish between the two
> > interpretations in a stremlined version of the experiment Einstein,
> > Podolsky and Rosen proposed. (I can look it up for you if you want
> > something more specific than "a quantity").
> 
> please do.

Here's the simplest scenario:

The spin-0 state decays into two electrons (spin-1/2 particles).
Spin-1/2 particles, when measured, will only ever be found in a +1/2
or a -1/2 state, never spin 0. To conserve angular momentum, if one of
them is found in a +1/2 state, the other MUST be found in a -1/2
state, if the measurement is done along the same axis.

    z
    |_ x

    spin-measuring   /________  decay of    ________\  spin-measuring
       device A      \         spin-0 state         /     device B

Experimentally, this is done with photons (spin-1 particles). The same
logic applies (a photon will never be found with a spin of zero along
any axis) but the derivation is more involved. Aspect and Grangier in
the 70's did exactly the above with photon pairs from a decaying
nucleus.

The two detectors are placed far enough apart that the time to measure
and record a spin measurement is shorter than the time for a signal at
speed c to propogate from one detector to the other.

Device A will be measuring spins along the z axis (perpendicular to
the beamline). Device B will be measuring spin along an axis which is
perpendicular to the beamline but an angle theta from the z axis. When
theta is zero, device B will always measure a spin opposite to the
spin measured by device A (exactly anti-correlated), by conservation
of angular momentum. When theta is pi/2, device B will measure a spin
which is completely uncorrelated with the measurement of device A. For
intermediate values of theta, the value will be partially correlated.
Here is the explaination and calculation given by quantum mechanics:

(I decided to include all the background to really understand the
calculation... I don't remember there being any vector space
formulation of QM in physics 3.)

The state of a particle is given by a normalized vector in a vector
space. For spin-1/2 particles (as it is for spin-1 particles), this
vector space (or the relevant part of it) is two-dimensional. If we
choose a basis in this vector space to be "spin measurements in the
z-direction", then one basis vector may be associated with "spin =
+1/2" and the other with "spin = -1/2". An unobserved particle may
take a state represented by any normalized vector in this space, but
when the particle is observed, it is then projected onto the "spin
measurements in teh z-direction" basis vectors. The component on the
"spin = +1/2" vector is interpreted as the sqrt of the probability of
finding the particle in the +1/2 state. Alternatively, we can say
that the probability of getting a measurement corresponding to state x
from a particle which was originally in a state y is the (square of
the) inner product                                2
		   P( measurement x ) == ( x . y )

The two particles in our experimental apparatus are in an entangled
state--- neither particle can be expressed in terms of a state alone,
the system of both particles together are expressed as the following
state

   y = ( "A = +1/2, B = -1/2"  -  "A = -1/2, B = +1/2" ) / sqrt(2)

where the vector space is a four-dimensional space. This space is
spanned by the following set of orthonormal basis vectors:
  "A = +1/2, B = +1/2"    A measures spin +1/2 zhat, B has +1/2 zhat
  "A = +1/2, B = -1/2"    A measures spin +1/2 zhat, B has -1/2 zhat
  "A = -1/2, B = +1/2"    A measures spin -1/2 zhat, B has +1/2 zhat
  "A = -1/2, B = -1/2"    A measures spin -1/2 zhat, B has -1/2 zhat

Notice that if we take the inner products
  ( "A = +1/2, B = +1/2"  .  y )^2  ==  0
  ( "A = +1/2, B = -1/2"  .  y )^2  ==  1/2
  ( "A = -1/2, B = +1/2"  .  y )^2  ==  1/2
  ( "A = -1/2, B = -1/2"  .  y )^2  ==  0
because you'll never see A and B with the same spin (theta=0), and
you'll see either of the two antiparallel combinations with equal
probability. The axiom of probability that
		sum of all disjoint probabilities == 1
is equivalent to the completeness relation of basis vectors that span
a space.

Now, when you do a spin measurement of a particle NOT along the
z-axis, that measurement picks a different basis set. It can be
derived that the unitary transformation from the "spin measurement in
the z-direction" basis to the "spin measurement at an angle theta from
z" basis is

		 /  cos( theta / 2 )    -sin( theta / 2 )  \
	 R  ==  |                                           |
		 \  sin( theta / 2 )     cos( theta / 2 )  /

In our four-dimensional abstract spin space, the rotation is only
applied to the B measurement part. (R4 = identity $\otimes$ R)

		        /  cos  -sin    0     0   \
		 R  == |   sin   cos    0     0    |
		  4    |    0     0    cos  -sin   |
		        \   0     0    sin   cos  /

Our entangled state y is expressed (above) in terms of the theta=0
basis. The measurement is going to pick out basis vectors in a
non-zero theta basis, so we need to inner product y onto transformed
basis vectors                                       2
		P( measurement x ) == ( x . R4 . y )

Here are the results:
	  P( A = +1/2, B = +1/2 ) == sin^2( theta / 2 ) / 2
	  P( A = +1/2, B = -1/2 ) == cos^2( theta / 2 ) / 2
	  P( A = -1/2, B = +1/2 ) == cos^2( theta / 2 ) / 2
	  P( A = -1/2, B = -1/2 ) == sin^2( theta / 2 ) / 2
These add up to one and quantify a correlation that continuously
varies with theta from perfect anticorrelation at theta=0 to being
perfectly uncorrelated at theta=pi/2.

This is the quantum mechanical prediction. Notice that I haven't
assumed that any more fundumental information exists about the state
of a particle other than a recipe for calculating the probabilities
for a set of results, given a measurement technique. We can think of
the quantum mechanical description of the state as supplying a
function from experimental setup (angle theta of detector B) to a set
of disjoint < result, probability > pairs. (The vector y and a choice
of orthonormal basis can be mapped to a set of components-squared of
y.)

It would seem that this is not enough: for a particle in some given
state, there must exist a function from experimental setup to the
result of the measurement, even if we don't know what that function
is. This is what you described, thinking that there was conflict
between QM and locality, in terms of cryptography theory: the particle
state is effectively a pseudorandom generator, a mapping from
measurement strategy to the result of that measurement which is too
complicated for us to compute and therefore predict. (If I'm putting
words into your mouth, I'm sure you'll stop me.)

Bell's inequality comes from the following argument. Suppose that
there are three experimental setups under consideration:
  1. detector A is aligned along z, B is angled at theta = 10 degrees
  2. detector A is aligned along z, B is angled at theta = 20 degrees
  3. detector A is angled at theta = 10 degrees, B is at 20 degrees

The result of any measurement will only ever be +/- 1/2, so there are
eight relevant states (A at 10 deg == - B at 10 deg).

  population   A at 0 deg   A at 10 deg   B at 10 deg   B at 20 deg
      N1   	 + 1/2 	      - 1/2	    + 1/2    	  + 1/2
      N2   	 + 1/2 	      - 1/2  	    + 1/2    	  - 1/2
      N3   	 + 1/2 	      + 1/2  	    - 1/2    	  + 1/2
      N4   	 + 1/2 	      + 1/2  	    - 1/2    	  - 1/2
      N5   	 - 1/2 	      - 1/2  	    + 1/2    	  + 1/2
      N6   	 - 1/2 	      - 1/2  	    + 1/2    	  - 1/2
      N7   	 - 1/2 	      + 1/2  	    - 1/2    	  + 1/2
      N8   	 - 1/2 	      + 1/2  	    - 1/2    	  - 1/2

Even in this deterministic theory, it is not necessarily possible to
identify which of the eight states the system was in by measurement
because you can only measure B at 10 degrees or at 20 degrees, not
both. The measurement process could, in principle, change the state so
that a subsequent 60-degree measurement would not be valid to
distiguish state 7 from state 8. (This is somethingthing that people
erroneously think is novel about QM.)

This situation is different from quantum mechanics because of the
assertion that each of these lines represents a distinct state of the
system. Even if we can't necessarily measure it with instruments, in
the deterministic theory we can consider a state that would read +1/2
if we turned B 10 degrees and would read -1/2 if we turned B 20
degrees. This is impossible in (modern) QM since the "B is 10 degrees"
basis vectors and the "B is 20 degrees" basis vectors have non-zero,
non-one projections onto each other, so even if you knew that B@10 deg
would yield +1/2, you could only make a probabilistic statement about
what you would measure for B@20 degrees.

For some large dataset (N == N1+N2+N3+N4+N5+N6+N7+N8 events), the
details of the deterministic theory may predict populations Ni for
each of the possible states. Whatever these Ni are, they are certainly
non-negative. So we can say

         N1 + N3       <=     N1 + N3 + N2 + N7

       ( N1 + N3 )     <=      ( N1 + N2 )    +      ( N3 + N7 )

       ( N1 + N3 )     <=      ( N1 + N2 )    +      ( N3 + N7 )
      -------------           -----------------------------------
            N                                 N

   P( A@0 +, B@20 + )  <=  P( A@0 +, B@10 + ) + P( A@10 +, B@20 + )

This is a special case of Bell's inequality. It can be generalized to
arbitrary angles easily, and for arbitrary-spin particles with
difficulty. 

As a reminder, the probability for getting +1/2 in both detectors
according to QM was

	  P( A = +1/2, B = +1/2 ) == sin^2( theta / 2 ) / 2

where theta is the angle between the measurement axes of the two
detectors.

   P( A@0  +, B@20 + ) == sin^2( 20 / 2 ) / 2 == 0.0151
   P( A@0  +, B@10 + ) == sin^2( 10 / 2 ) / 2 == 0.0038
   P( A@10 +, B@20 + ) == sin^2( 10 / 2 ) / 2 == 0.0038

and 0.0038 + 0.0038 == 0.0076 is not greater than or equal to 0.0151.
This is not a special case of small numbers or anything like that,
Bell's inequality is violated by QM through the range 0 < theta <
pi/2. Once the technology to produce pure entangled states developed,
the QM prediction was verifed to many standard deviations outside of
the deterministic theory bound. Experiments usually work with the
spin-1 version of Bell's theorem, measuring the "spin" (polarization)
of photons by passing them through polarizing filters.

Even this doesn't entirely rule out deterministic theories, though---
it is still possible for a deterministic theory to reproduce the QM
predictions by allowing the measurement process at one detector to
alter the state of the particle near the other detector. Since the two
detectors can be separated by a distance much larger than the
resolution times of the two detectors, this communication is non-local
and violates causality as it is understood in the framework of special
relativity. Most physicists prefer to believe non-deterministic
quantum mechanics.

It may seem that QM is violating locality here, too, since a mixed
state ( "A = +1/2, B = -1/2" - "A = -1/2, B = +1/2" ) / sqrt(2)
becomes either "A = +1/2, B = -1/2" or "A = -1/2, B = +1/2" when it is
measured at A, forcing the measurement at B to be known with
certainty. This is an opportunity to refine our definition of
locality: the quantum state of a system is an inherantly unobservable
object. When we believe that we have created a pure ensemble of
particles in a given state, we can deduce or impose bounds on parts of
the quantum state by observing the frequency of collapses to this
basis or that basis, but the state of an arbitrary particle can't be
determined by any single measurement. (And one measurement is all you
get!) Most physicists take the position that locality, and hence
causality, only matters for in-principly observable things. Thus QM is
local and those deterministic theories which reproduce QM are not
because in any deterministic theory, the state of a system is in
principle observable.

Observer A may have resolved ( y1 - y2 ) / sqrt(2) ---> y1, but
observer B doesn't know that. When he sees a measurement of y1, he
might as well think that he did the state collapse for observer A.
There is no causal connection between the two measurements, and the
partial ordering is preserved.

It's getting to be daylight. I've been staying up in the control room
while data that I'll be using in my thesis is being taken (not that I
have much to do with it--- I just check to see that the numbers are
reasonable as they come in... every... hour... or... two...). What
I've really been doing is trying to get an analysis job to run while
relearning and typesetting Bell's theorem. I thought it was fun, I
hope it's understandable.

> btw, i like your new name .

:)

I've been meaning to do it for some time, to disambiguate child names,
but have never gotten around to it. Now the level of having gotten
around to it is that I'm on the CLEO author list as Pivarski but
everything else says McCann. Entangled state references have not come
up, but I'm sometimes called "The Graduate Student Formerly Known as
McCann."

Uh-oh, morning people are getting here and asking me questions. Good
night!

-- Jim

===================================================
   Jim Pivarski (a.k.a. McCann)
   Physics graduate student, CLEO, Cornell University
   mailto:mccann@watson.org

