Term paper paragraph  ---  Jim Pivarski
=======================================

Although I'm not taking this course for credit (not even auditing),
the open-endedness of the term paper question got me thinking about
what would be an interesting topic. Well, there is a topic that I find
interesting; maybe you'd like to read about it: particle naming
conventions. Particle physicists have been discovering and trying to
categorize new elementary particles since the beginning of the
twentieth century, and have developed informal and international
naming conventions along the way. (For instance, a lot of particles
from the first half of the twentieth century end in "-on". I think
this is to draw a similarity to the fundumentalness of the "proton,"
which comes from Greek for "first." I would need to do a little
research here, because the "electron" was discovered first, and its
name comes somehow from "elektra," Greek for "amber.") I could also
write about how Categorization schemes such as "lepton," "meson,"
"hadron" take on new meaning as more is discovered about the
particles' substructures, and the varied ways that individual
particles get their names: from the shape their decays make in the
detector (the psi particle), people's names (Samuel _Chao_ Chung Ting
--> "J") as well as more arbitrary sources ("three _quarks_ for Muster
Mark" (_Finnegan's Wake_)). (Actually, Gell-Mann intended to emphasize
the way quarks always come in threes.) Finally, a new theory which
predicts a doubling of the number of particles--- each particle that
we know about has a mirror-partner that we haven't discovered yet---
also proposes a scheme for naming the new particles, once they are
discovered (prefixing "s-" or suffixing "-ino," depending on the
particle type).

I haven't yet been able to think of a thesis that would draw this all
together, at the moment it is a collection of anecdotes. Unlike
historical linguistics, there are no regular sound changes (none of
these words have existed for more than 105 years), but there might be
variations from language to language. (I would only have access to
French, German and Russian speakers in my office, if I go that route.)
Because we're scientists, there is some struggle to make the
categorizations meaningful--- to give the nomenclature a grammar that
models the natural structures (such as prefixing "anti-" for an
oppositely-charged version of some particle, and the "s-"/"-ino" rule
mentioned above), but this is subject to a changing understanding of
what those natural structures are, and a tendancy for widely-used
names to stick. (The use of "mu meson" rather than "muon" can be used
to catch a physicist's age, since the category "meson" has shifted in
meaning.) A lot of this is known to me only well enough to structure a
paper--- there would still be a little research for me to do to fix
the details.
