What implications do mental illnesses and addictions have on free
will?

When talking about responsibility for our actions, it is always under
the condition that we had the capacity to choose those actions. For
example, if someone commits a misdeed while totally under the
influence of a chemical or psychological illness, that misdeed is not
a sin. But the influence of chemicals on the body and mental illnesses
on the brain are sufficiently complicated that it is very difficult to
see, in practice, what is a failure of resolve and what is an outside
influence.

It may be true that at some point in becoming an alcoholic, a person
is responsible for overdrinking. But after this has become a disease,
is continuing the habit an act of free will? Perhaps it isn't, because
the body itself makes the demand for alcohol. But isn't the body a
part of the whole person? Also, organizations have existed for about
seventy years where people can slowly overcome their addictions. Those
who have overcome the disease (``recovering alcoholics'') can be said
to have exercised their free will in doing so. Can the same thing be
said of those who have not taken this step? If so, how can something
so circumstantial as living eighty years ago or not being able to fit
AA meetings into one's schedule affect something so universal as Free
Will?

Also, it is possible for mental illness to change one's personality. A
person can grow and build character over his or her entire life, only
to be afflicted with dementia or Alzheimer's disease at a later stage
and become unrecognizable, even to friends and family. Is this a
different person? Has the first person already died (and gone to
Heaven)? When the patient dies, who is he or she in the afterlife, or
to God? Are we, at the Resurrection, the last person we have become,
or the best, or what? If the body is part of what constitutes us as a
person, are even our chemical imbalances or mental miswiring a part of
us?