The question for next week:

How would you re-write Genesis 2-3 (Adam and Eve; the Fall), in a way
that preserves all the important content?

The point of this is to find out what you think the important aspects
of this story are. You may believe that your version must be exactly
the same as the original, word-for-word (in Hebrew). In this case,
everything is essential. You may believe that it is important that
some event took place in the distant past which introduced sin into
the world. Maybe you want to update the details to be more in line
with the modern scientific picture of the way humans came to be. Or
perhaps you want to accentuate the psychological elements of the story
and make it more surreal.

(I don't expect people to show up with completed short stories! Just
sketch the idea of the story in your mind. Next time, we'll try to
hear from everybody what they think.)

How is this related to science? Well, in the middle of the summer I
read a little bit about an exciting discovery in human origins: a
seven million-year old skull was found in central Africa bearing more
resemblance to a human head than any of the manlike apes of three
million years ago.

    Try Washington Post "Earliest Human Ancestor?" By Guy Gugliotta;
    Thursday, July 11, 2002; Page A01

This discovery, if validated, re-shapes our outline of human
prehistory. Instead of a gradual development from apes to humans, a
large variety of humanoids emerged at first, then all disappeared but
one, one who would discover agriculture and build civilizations.
Instead of asking about biblical literalism versus scientific
inferences, I thought that this question would probe more deeply.
